EZP-32120: Security checklist (#1209)
ezsystems/developer-documentation: docs/guide/security_checklist.md

# Security checklist

When getting ready to go live with your project for the first time, or when re-launching it,
you need to make sure your setup is secure.

!!! caution

    Security is an ongoing process. After going live, you should pay attention to security advisories
    released via [your service portal,](https://support.ibexa.co/)
    or via [Security advisories](https://developers.ibexa.co/security-advisories) if you're not a subscriber.

## Symfony

### `APP_SECRET`

`APP_SECRET` needs to be a strong, random, securely stored value.

- Do not use a default value like `ff6dc61a329dc96652bb092ec58981f7` or `ThisTokenIsNotSoSecretChangeIt`
- The secret must be secured against unwanted access. Do not commit it to version control.
- The secret must be long enough. 32 characters is minimum, longer is better.

!!! tip
    

>     This will generate a 64-character-long secure random secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The following command will generate a 64-character-long secure random value:
```
@dabrt I'd like to keep "secure" here since not all random generators are secure (unpredictable).

    
    `print bin2hex(random_bytes(32));`
    
!!! tip

    On Ibexa Cloud, if `APP_SECRET` is not set, the system sets it to [`PLATFORM_PROJECT_ENTROPY`](https://docs.platform.sh/development/variables.html#platformsh-provided-variables)

### Symfony production mode

> Only expose Symfony production mode openly on the internet. If you have exposed dev mode, secure and change all passwords/secrets.

Reviewer: @dabrt Good, agreed.
```suggestion
Only expose Symfony production mode openly on the internet.
Do not expose the dev mode on the internet, otherwise you may disclose things like `phpinfo` and environment variables.
```

Exposing the dev mode exposes things like `phpinfo`, environment variables and so on.

!!! tip "More about Symfony security"

    - [Authentication and authorisation](https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html), and [more on this subject](https://symfony.com/doc/current/security.html#learn-more)
    - Symfony's [secrets management system](https://symfony.com/doc/current/configuration/secrets.html)

## [[= product_name_ee =]]

### Fully-vetted admin users

Make sure Admin users and other privileged users who have access to System Information and setup in the back end
are vetted and fully trustworthy.

As administrator you have access to full information about the system through the `setup/system_info` Policy,
and also to user data, Role editing, and many other critical aspects.

### Strong passwords

> Enforce strong passwords for all users. This is specially important for admin accounts and other privileged users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Enforce strong passwords for all users. 
This is specially important for admin accounts and other privileged users.
```

> - Never go online with admin password set to `publish` or any other default value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Never go online with admin password set to `publish` or any other default value.
```

> - Introduce password quality checks. Make sure they are secure enough (length/complexity).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Introduce password quality checks. Make sure passwords are secure enough (length/complexity).
```

Reviewer: @dabrt Here "they" refers to the quality checks.
```suggestion
- Introduce password quality checks. Make sure the checks are strict enough (length/complexity).
```

- 16 characters is a quite secure minimum length. Do not go below 10.

!!! tip "Password rules"

    See [setting up password rules](user_management/user_management.md#password-rules).

### Secure secrets

Ensure all other secrets are similarly secured: Varnish invalidate token, JWT passphrase (if in use),
and any other application-specific secrets.

### Protect against brute force attacks

> Introduce a measure in place against brute force login attacks (captcha, etc.).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Introduce a measure against brute force login attacks (captcha, etc.).
```
Or "have a measure in place"

### Disable Fastly when using Varnish

If you are using Fastly, disable Varnish.
See [Security advisory: EZSA-2020-002.](https://developers.ibexa.co/security-advisories/ezsa-2020-002-unauthorised-cache-purge-with-misconfigured-fastly)

> ### Block execution of scripts in the `var` directory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Block the execution of scripts in the `var` directory
```

> Make sure the web server blocks execution of PHP files and other scripts in the `var` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure the web server blocks the execution of PHP files and other scripts in the `var` directory.
```

The older UTF8 can lead to truncation with 4-byte characters, like some emoji, which may have unpredictable side effects.

See [Change from UTF8 to UTF8MB4](../updating/4_update_2.2.md#change-from-utf8-to-utf8mb4).

### Use secure Roles and Policies

Use the following checklist to ensure the Roles and Policies are secure:

- Do Roles restrict read/write access to content as they should? Is read/write access to personal data, like User Content items, properly restricted?
- Are the Roles and their use properly differentiated and restricted? Is an editor Role used for everyday editorial work?
- Is the admin Role used only for high-level administrative work? Is the number of people with admin access properly restricted and vetted?
- Should people be allowed to create new user accounts themselves? Should such accounts be enabled by default, or require vetting by admins?
- Is the Role of self-created new users restricted as intended?
- Is there a clear Role separation between the organisation's internal and external users?
- Is access to user data properly restricted, in accordance with GDPR?

## Underlying stack

- Avoid exposing servers on the open internet when not strictly required.

> - Ensure any servers, services, ports and virtual hosts opened for testing purposes are locked down before going live.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure any servers, services, ports and virtual hosts that were opened for testing purposes are locked down before going live.
```
